docs/ug/src/main/jbake/content/debug.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Debugging Test Problems
next=faq.html
prev=using.html
~~~~~~
include::attributes.conf[]
Debugging Test Problems
=======================

[[GBFUV]]


[[debugging-test-problems]]
6 Debugging Test Problems
-------------------------

There are a number of reasons that tests can fail to execute properly.
This chapter provides some approaches for dealing with these failures.
Please note that most of these suggestions are only relevant when
running the test harness in GUI mode.

This chapter includes the following topics:

* link:#GBFYP[Overview]
* link:#GBFVF[Test Tree]
* link:#GBFWI[Folder Information]
* link:#GBFVP[Test Information]
* link:#GBFVZ[Report Files]
* link:#GBFYF[Configuration Failures]

[[GBFYP]][[overview]]

6.1 Overview
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The goal of a test run is for all tests in the test suite that are not
filtered out to have passing results. If the root test suite folder
contains tests with errors or failing results, you must troubleshoot and
correct the cause to satisfactorily complete the test run.

* Errors: Tests with errors could not be executed by the JavaTest
harness. These errors usually occur because the test environment is not
properly configured.
* Failures: Tests that fail were executed but had failing results.

The Test Manager GUI provides you with a number of tools for effectively
troubleshooting a test run. See the JavaTest User's Guide and JavaTest
online help for detailed descriptions of the tools described in this
chapter.  Ant test execution tasks provide command-line users with
immediate test execution feedback to the display. Available JTR report
files and log files can also help command-line users troubleshoot test
run problems.

For every test run, the JavaTest harness creates a set of report files
in the reports directory, which you specified by setting the
`report.dir` property in the +{jteFileName}+ file. The report files contain
information about the test description, environment, messages,
properties used by the test, status of the test, and test result. After
a test run is completed, the JavaTest harness writes HTML reports for
the test run. You can view these files in the JavaTest ReportBrowser
when running in GUI mode, or in the Web browser of your choice outside
the JavaTest interface. To see all of the HTML report files, enter the
URL of the `report.html` file. This file is the root file that links to
all of the other HTML reports.

The JavaTest harness also creates a `summary.txt` file in the report
directory that you can open in any text editor. The `summary.txt` file
contains a list of all tests that were run, their test results, and
their status messages.

The work directory, which you specified by setting the `work.dir`
property in the +{jteFileName}+ file, contains several files that were
deposited there during test execution: `harness.trace`, `log.txt`,
`lastRun.txt`, and `testsuite`. Most of these files provide information
about the harness and environment in which the tests were executed.

[NOTE]
=======================================================================

You can set `harness.log.traceflag=true` in +{jteFileName}+ to
get more debugging information.

=======================================================================

If a large number of tests failed, you should read
link:#GBFYF[Configuration Failures] to see if a
configuration issue is the cause of the failures.


[[GBFVF]][[test-tree]]

6.2 Test Tree
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use the test tree in the JavaTest GUI to identify specific folders and
tests that had errors or failing results. Color codes are used to
indicate status as follows:

* Green: Passed
* Blue: Test Error
* Red: Failed to pass test
* White: Test not run
* Gray: Test filtered out (not run)

[[GBFWI]][[folder-information]]

6.3 Folder Information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Click a folder in the test tree in the JavaTest GUI to display its tabs.

Choose the Error and the Failed tabs to view the lists of all tests in
and under a folder that were not successfully run. You can double-click
a test in the lists to view its test information.

[[GBFVP]][[test-information]]

6.4 Test Information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To display information about a test in the JavaTest GUI, click its icon
in the test tree or double-click its name in a folder status tab. The
tab contains detailed information about the test run and, at the bottom
of the window, a brief status message identifying the type of failure or
error. This message may be sufficient for you to identify the cause of
the error or failure.

If you need more information to identify the cause of the error or
failure, use the following tabs listed in order of importance:

* Test Run Messages contains a Message list and a Message section that
display the messages produced during the test run.
* Test Run Details contains a two-column table of name/value pairs
recorded when the test was run.
* Configuration contains a two-column table of the test environment
name/value pairs derived from the configuration data actually used to
run the test.


[NOTE]
=======================================================================

You can set `harness.log.traceflag=true` in +{jteFileName}+ to
get more debugging information.

=======================================================================


[[GBFVZ]][[report-files]]

6.5 Report Files
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Report files are another good source of troubleshooting information. You
may view the individual test results of a batch run in the JavaTest
Summary window, but there are also a wide range of HTML report files
that you can view in the JavaTest ReportBrowser or in the external
browser or your choice following a test run. See
link:using.html#GBFVK[Section 5.5, "Test Reports,"] for more information.

[[GBFYF]][[configuration-failures]]

6.6 Configuration Failures
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Configuration failures are easily recognized because many tests fail the
same way. When all your tests begin to fail, you may want to stop the
run immediately and start viewing individual test output. However, in
the case of full-scale launching problems where no tests are actually
processed, report files are usually not created (though sometimes a
small `harness.trace` file in the report directory is written).

include::debug-tips.inc[]

Commit message:

Moving to maven and JUnit5
Signed-off-by: Jorge Bescos Gascon <jorge.bescos.gascon@oracle.com>

docs/ug/src/main/jbake/content/debug.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

    This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
    terms of the Eclipse Public License v. 2.0, which is available at
    http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

    This Source Code may also be made available under the following Secondary
    Licenses when the conditions for such availability set forth in the
    Eclipse Public License v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU General Public License,
    version 2 with the GNU Classpath Exception, which is available at
    https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html.

    SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0 OR GPL-2.0 WITH Classpath-exception-2.0

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

type=page
status=published
title=Debugging Test Problems
next=faq.html
prev=using.html
~~~~~~
include::attributes.conf[]
Debugging Test Problems
=======================

[[GBFUV]]


[[debugging-test-problems]]
6 Debugging Test Problems
-------------------------

There are a number of reasons that tests can fail to execute properly.
This chapter provides some approaches for dealing with these failures.
Please note that most of these suggestions are only relevant when
running the test harness in GUI mode.

This chapter includes the following topics:

* link:#GBFYP[Overview]
* link:#GBFVF[Test Tree]
* link:#GBFWI[Folder Information]
* link:#GBFVP[Test Information]
* link:#GBFVZ[Report Files]
* link:#GBFYF[Configuration Failures]

[[GBFYP]][[overview]]

6.1 Overview
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The goal of a test run is for all tests in the test suite that are not
filtered out to have passing results. If the root test suite folder
contains tests with errors or failing results, you must troubleshoot and
correct the cause to satisfactorily complete the test run.

* Errors: Tests with errors could not be executed by the JavaTest
harness. These errors usually occur because the test environment is not
properly configured.
* Failures: Tests that fail were executed but had failing results.

The Test Manager GUI provides you with a number of tools for effectively
troubleshooting a test run. See the JavaTest User's Guide and JavaTest
online help for detailed descriptions of the tools described in this
chapter.  Ant test execution tasks provide command-line users with
immediate test execution feedback to the display. Available JTR report
files and log files can also help command-line users troubleshoot test
run problems.

For every test run, the JavaTest harness creates a set of report files
in the reports directory, which you specified by setting the
`report.dir` property in the +{jteFileName}+ file. The report files contain
information about the test description, environment, messages,
properties used by the test, status of the test, and test result. After
a test run is completed, the JavaTest harness writes HTML reports for
the test run. You can view these files in the JavaTest ReportBrowser
when running in GUI mode, or in the Web browser of your choice outside
the JavaTest interface. To see all of the HTML report files, enter the
URL of the `report.html` file. This file is the root file that links to
all of the other HTML reports.

The JavaTest harness also creates a `summary.txt` file in the report
directory that you can open in any text editor. The `summary.txt` file
contains a list of all tests that were run, their test results, and
their status messages.

The work directory, which you specified by setting the `work.dir`
property in the +{jteFileName}+ file, contains several files that were
deposited there during test execution: `harness.trace`, `log.txt`,
`lastRun.txt`, and `testsuite`. Most of these files provide information
about the harness and environment in which the tests were executed.

[NOTE]
=======================================================================

You can set `harness.log.traceflag=true` in +{jteFileName}+ to
get more debugging information.

=======================================================================

If a large number of tests failed, you should read
link:#GBFYF[Configuration Failures] to see if a
configuration issue is the cause of the failures.


[[GBFVF]][[test-tree]]

6.2 Test Tree
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use the test tree in the JavaTest GUI to identify specific folders and
tests that had errors or failing results. Color codes are used to
indicate status as follows:

* Green: Passed
* Blue: Test Error
* Red: Failed to pass test
* White: Test not run
* Gray: Test filtered out (not run)

[[GBFWI]][[folder-information]]

6.3 Folder Information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Click a folder in the test tree in the JavaTest GUI to display its tabs.

Choose the Error and the Failed tabs to view the lists of all tests in
and under a folder that were not successfully run. You can double-click
a test in the lists to view its test information.

[[GBFVP]][[test-information]]

6.4 Test Information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To display information about a test in the JavaTest GUI, click its icon
in the test tree or double-click its name in a folder status tab. The
tab contains detailed information about the test run and, at the bottom
of the window, a brief status message identifying the type of failure or
error. This message may be sufficient for you to identify the cause of
the error or failure.

If you need more information to identify the cause of the error or
failure, use the following tabs listed in order of importance:

* Test Run Messages contains a Message list and a Message section that
display the messages produced during the test run.
* Test Run Details contains a two-column table of name/value pairs
recorded when the test was run.
* Configuration contains a two-column table of the test environment
name/value pairs derived from the configuration data actually used to
run the test.


[NOTE]
=======================================================================

You can set `harness.log.traceflag=true` in +{jteFileName}+ to
get more debugging information.

=======================================================================


[[GBFVZ]][[report-files]]

6.5 Report Files
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Report files are another good source of troubleshooting information. You
may view the individual test results of a batch run in the JavaTest
Summary window, but there are also a wide range of HTML report files
that you can view in the JavaTest ReportBrowser or in the external
browser or your choice following a test run. See
link:using.html#GBFVK[Section 5.5, "Test Reports,"] for more information.

[[GBFYF]][[configuration-failures]]

6.6 Configuration Failures
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Configuration failures are easily recognized because many tests fail the
same way. When all your tests begin to fail, you may want to stop the
run immediately and start viewing individual test output. However, in
the case of full-scale launching problems where no tests are actually
processed, report files are usually not created (though sometimes a
small `harness.trace` file in the report directory is written).

include::debug-tips.inc[]
