docs/ug/src/main/jbake/content/faq.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Appendix A: Frequently Asked Questions
next=rebuild.html
prev=debug.html
~~~~~~
include::attributes.conf[]
Appendix A: Frequently Asked Questions
======================================

[[GBFYD]]


[[a-frequently-asked-questions]]
A Frequently Asked Questions
----------------------------

This appendix contains the following questions.

* link:#GBFYQ[Where do I start to debug a test failure?]
* link:#GBFYR[How do I restart a crashed test run?]
* link:#GBFWU[What would cause tests be added to the exclude list?]

[[GBFYQ]][[a.1-where-do-i-start-to-debug-a-test-failure]]

A.1 Where do I start to debug a test failure?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

From the JavaTest GUI, you can view recently run tests using the Test
Results Summary, by selecting the red Failed tab or the blue Error tab.
See link:debug.html#GBFUV[Chapter 6, "Debugging Test Problems,"] for more
information.

[[GBFYR]][[a.2-how-do-i-restart-a-crashed-test-run]]

A.2 How do I restart a crashed test run?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you need to restart a test run, you can figure out which test crashed
the test suite by looking at the `harness.trace` file. The
`harness.trace` file is in the report directory that you supplied to the
JavaTest GUI or parameter file. Examine this trace file, then change the
JavaTest GUI initial files to that location or to a directory location
below that file, and restart. This will overwrite only `.jtr` files that
you rerun. As long as you do not change the value of the GUI work
directory, you can continue testing and then later compile a complete
report to include results from all such partial runs.

[[GBFWU]][[a.3-what-would-cause-tests-be-added-to-the-exclude-list]]

A.3 What would cause tests be added to the exclude list?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The JavaTest exclude file (+{jtxFileName}+) contains all tests that are not
required to be run. The following is a list of reasons for a test to be
included in the Exclude List:

* An error in a reference implementation that does not allow the test to
execute properly has been discovered.
* An error in the specification that was used as the basis of the test
has been discovered.
* An error in the test has been discovered.

Commit message:

Moving to maven and JUnit5
Signed-off-by: Jorge Bescos Gascon <jorge.bescos.gascon@oracle.com>

docs/ug/src/main/jbake/content/faq.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

    This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
    terms of the Eclipse Public License v. 2.0, which is available at
    http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

    This Source Code may also be made available under the following Secondary
    Licenses when the conditions for such availability set forth in the
    Eclipse Public License v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU General Public License,
    version 2 with the GNU Classpath Exception, which is available at
    https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html.

    SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0 OR GPL-2.0 WITH Classpath-exception-2.0

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

type=page
status=published
title=Appendix A: Frequently Asked Questions
next=rebuild.html
prev=debug.html
~~~~~~
include::attributes.conf[]
Appendix A: Frequently Asked Questions
======================================

[[GBFYD]]


[[a-frequently-asked-questions]]
A Frequently Asked Questions
----------------------------

This appendix contains the following questions.

* link:#GBFYQ[Where do I start to debug a test failure?]
* link:#GBFYR[How do I restart a crashed test run?]
* link:#GBFWU[What would cause tests be added to the exclude list?]

[[GBFYQ]][[a.1-where-do-i-start-to-debug-a-test-failure]]

A.1 Where do I start to debug a test failure?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

From the JavaTest GUI, you can view recently run tests using the Test
Results Summary, by selecting the red Failed tab or the blue Error tab.
See link:debug.html#GBFUV[Chapter 6, "Debugging Test Problems,"] for more
information.

[[GBFYR]][[a.2-how-do-i-restart-a-crashed-test-run]]

A.2 How do I restart a crashed test run?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you need to restart a test run, you can figure out which test crashed
the test suite by looking at the `harness.trace` file. The
`harness.trace` file is in the report directory that you supplied to the
JavaTest GUI or parameter file. Examine this trace file, then change the
JavaTest GUI initial files to that location or to a directory location
below that file, and restart. This will overwrite only `.jtr` files that
you rerun. As long as you do not change the value of the GUI work
directory, you can continue testing and then later compile a complete
report to include results from all such partial runs.

[[GBFWU]][[a.3-what-would-cause-tests-be-added-to-the-exclude-list]]

A.3 What would cause tests be added to the exclude list?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The JavaTest exclude file (+{jtxFileName}+) contains all tests that are not
required to be run. The following is a list of reasons for a test to be
included in the Exclude List:

* An error in a reference implementation that does not allow the test to
execute properly has been discovered.
* An error in the specification that was used as the basis of the test
has been discovered.
* An error in the test has been discovered.
