docs/ug/src/main/jbake/content/install.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Installation
next=config.html
prev=rules.html
~~~~~~
include::attributes.conf[]
Installation
============

[[GBFTP]]


[[installation]]
3 Installation
--------------

This chapter explains how to install the {TechnologyFullName} TCK software.

After installing the software according to the instructions in this
chapter, proceed to link:config.html#GBFVV[Chapter 4, "Setup and
Configuration,"] for instructions on configuring your test environment.

[[GBFUD]][[obtaining-the-reference-implementation]]

3.1 Obtaining a Compatible Implementation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Each compatible implementation (CI) will provide instructions for obtaining
their implementation.
{TechnologyRI} is a compatible implementation which may be obtained
from {TechnologyRIURL}

[[GBFTS]][[installing-the-software]]

3.2 Installing the Software
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Before you can run the {TechnologyShortName} TCK tests, you must
install and set up the following software components:

include::req-software.inc[]
* Java SE {SEversion}
* Apache Ant {AntVersion}
* A CI for {TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion}, one example is {TechnologyRI}
* {TechnologyShortName} TCK version {TechnologyVersion}
* The {TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion} Vendor Implementation (VI)

Follow these steps:

.  Install the Java SE {SEversion} software, if it is not already installed. +
Download and install the Java SE {SEversion} software from
http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html.
Refer to the installation instructions that accompany the software for
additional information.
.  Install the {TechnologyShortName} TCK {TechnologyVersion} software.
  a.  Copy or download the {TechnologyShortName} TCK software to your
      local system. +
      You can obtain the {TechnologyShortName} TCK software from the
      Jakarta EE site {SpecificationURL}.
  b.  Use the `unzip` command to extract the bundle in the directory of
      your choice: +
      +unzip {TCKPackageName}+ +
      This creates the TCK directory. The TCK is the test suite home,
      `<TS_HOME>`.
include::install-server.inc[]
.  Install the Apache Ant {AntVersion} software, if it is not already installed. +
Download and install Apache Ant {AntVersion} software from Apache Ant
Project. For complete information about Ant, refer to the extensive documentation 
on the Apache Ant Project site. The Apache Ant Manual is available at
`http://ant.apache.org/manual/index.html`.
Apache Ant is protected under the Apache Software, License 2.0, which is
is available on the Apache Ant Project license page at 
`http://ant.apache.org/license.html`.
.  Install a {TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion} Compatible
Implementation. +
A Compatible Implementation is used to validate your initial
configuration and setup of the {TechnologyShortName} TCK
{TechnologyVersion} tests, which are explained further in
link:config.html#GBFVV[Chapter 4, "Setup and Configuration."] +
The Compatible Implementations for {TechnologyShortName} are listed on
the Jakarta EE Specifications web site: {SpecificationURL}.
include::install-server-vi.inc[]
.  Install the {TechnologyShortName} VI to be tested. +
Follow the installation instructions for the particular VI under test.

Commit message:

Moving to maven and JUnit5
Signed-off-by: Jorge Bescos Gascon <jorge.bescos.gascon@oracle.com>

docs/ug/src/main/jbake/content/install.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

    This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
    terms of the Eclipse Public License v. 2.0, which is available at
    http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

    This Source Code may also be made available under the following Secondary
    Licenses when the conditions for such availability set forth in the
    Eclipse Public License v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU General Public License,
    version 2 with the GNU Classpath Exception, which is available at
    https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html.

    SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0 OR GPL-2.0 WITH Classpath-exception-2.0

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

type=page
status=published
title=Installation
next=config.html
prev=rules.html
~~~~~~
include::attributes.conf[]
Installation
============

[[GBFTP]]


[[installation]]
3 Installation
--------------

This chapter explains how to install the {TechnologyFullName} TCK software.

After installing the software according to the instructions in this
chapter, proceed to link:config.html#GBFVV[Chapter 4, "Setup and
Configuration,"] for instructions on configuring your test environment.

[[GBFUD]][[obtaining-the-reference-implementation]]

3.1 Obtaining a Compatible Implementation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Each compatible implementation (CI) will provide instructions for obtaining
their implementation.
{TechnologyRI} is a compatible implementation which may be obtained
from {TechnologyRIURL}

[[GBFTS]][[installing-the-software]]

3.2 Installing the Software
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Before you can run the {TechnologyShortName} TCK tests, you must
install and set up the following software components:

include::req-software.inc[]
* Java SE {SEversion}
* Apache Ant {AntVersion}
* A CI for {TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion}, one example is {TechnologyRI}
* {TechnologyShortName} TCK version {TechnologyVersion}
* The {TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion} Vendor Implementation (VI)

Follow these steps:

.  Install the Java SE {SEversion} software, if it is not already installed. +
Download and install the Java SE {SEversion} software from
http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html.
Refer to the installation instructions that accompany the software for
additional information.
.  Install the {TechnologyShortName} TCK {TechnologyVersion} software.
  a.  Copy or download the {TechnologyShortName} TCK software to your
      local system. +
      You can obtain the {TechnologyShortName} TCK software from the
      Jakarta EE site {SpecificationURL}.
  b.  Use the `unzip` command to extract the bundle in the directory of
      your choice: +
      +unzip {TCKPackageName}+ +
      This creates the TCK directory. The TCK is the test suite home,
      `<TS_HOME>`.
include::install-server.inc[]
.  Install the Apache Ant {AntVersion} software, if it is not already installed. +
Download and install Apache Ant {AntVersion} software from Apache Ant
Project. For complete information about Ant, refer to the extensive documentation 
on the Apache Ant Project site. The Apache Ant Manual is available at
`http://ant.apache.org/manual/index.html`.
Apache Ant is protected under the Apache Software, License 2.0, which is
is available on the Apache Ant Project license page at 
`http://ant.apache.org/license.html`.
.  Install a {TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion} Compatible
Implementation. +
A Compatible Implementation is used to validate your initial
configuration and setup of the {TechnologyShortName} TCK
{TechnologyVersion} tests, which are explained further in
link:config.html#GBFVV[Chapter 4, "Setup and Configuration."] +
The Compatible Implementations for {TechnologyShortName} are listed on
the Jakarta EE Specifications web site: {SpecificationURL}.
include::install-server-vi.inc[]
.  Install the {TechnologyShortName} VI to be tested. +
Follow the installation instructions for the particular VI under test.
