docs/ug/src/main/jbake/content/intro.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Introduction
next=rules.html
prev=preface.html
~~~~~~
include::attributes.conf[]
Introduction
============

[[GBFOW]]


[[introduction]]
1 Introduction
--------------

This chapter provides an overview of the principles that apply
generally to all Technology Compatibility Kits (TCKs) and describes the
{TechnologyFullName} TCK ({TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion} TCK). 
It also includes a high level listing
of what is needed to get up and running with the {TechnologyShortName}
TCK.

This chapter includes the following topics:

* link:#GBFTK[Compatibility Testing]
* link:#GBFQR[About the TCK]
* link:#GBFQW[Getting Started With the TCK]

[[GBFTK]][[compatibility-testing]]

1.1 Compatibility Testing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Compatibility testing differs from traditional product testing in a
number of ways. The focus of compatibility testing is to test those
features and areas of an implementation that are likely to differ across
other implementations, such as those features that:

* Rely on hardware or operating system-specific behavior
* Are difficult to port
* Mask or abstract hardware or operating system behavior

Compatibility test development for a given feature relies on a complete
specification and compatible implementation (CI) for that feature.
Compatibility testing is not primarily concerned with robustness,
performance, nor ease of use.

[[GBFQN]][[why-compatibility-testing-is-important]]

1.1.1 Why Compatibility Testing is Important
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Jakarta platform compatibility is important to different groups involved
with Jakarta technologies for different reasons:

* Compatibility testing ensures that the Jakarta platform does not become
fragmented as it is ported to different operating systems and hardware
environments.
* Compatibility testing benefits developers working in the Jakarta
programming language, allowing them to write applications once and then
to deploy them across heterogeneous computing environments without
porting.
* Compatibility testing allows application users to obtain applications
from disparate sources and deploy them with confidence.
* Conformance testing benefits Jakarta platform implementors by ensuring a
level playing field for all Jakarta platform ports.

[[GBFPR]][[tck-compatibility-rules]]

1.1.2 TCK Compatibility Rules
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Compatibility criteria for all technology implementations are embodied
in the TCK Compatibility Rules that apply to a specified technology.
Each TCK tests for adherence to these Rules as described in
link:rules.html#GBFSN[Chapter 2, "Procedure for Certification."]

[[GBFPW]][[tck-overview]]

1.1.3 TCK Overview
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A TCK is a set of tools and tests used to verify that a vendor's compatible
implementation of a Jakarta EE technology conforms to the applicable
specification. All tests in the TCK are based on the written
specifications for the Jakarta EE platform. A TCK tests compatibility of a
vendor's compatible implementation of the technology to the applicable
specification of the technology. Compatibility testing is a means of
ensuring correctness, completeness, and consistency across all
implementations developed by technology licensees.

The set of tests included with each TCK is called the test suite. Most
tests in a TCK's test suite are self-checking, but some tests may
require tester interaction. Most tests return either a Pass or Fail
status. For a given platform to be certified, all of the required tests
must pass. The definition of required tests may change from platform to
platform.

The definition of required tests will change over time. Before your
final certification test pass, be sure to download the latest version
of this TCK.

[[GBFPB]][[java-community-process-jcp-program-and-compatibility-testing]]

1.1.4 Jakarta EE Specification Process (JESP) Program and Compatibility Testing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Jakarta EE Specification Process (JESP) program is the formalization of the
open process that has been used since 2019 to develop and revise Jakarta EE
technology specifications in cooperation with the international Jakarta EE
community. The JESP program specifies that the following three major
components must be included as deliverables in a final Jakarta EE technology
release under the direction of the responsible Expert Group:

* Technology Specification
* Compatible Implementation (CI)
* Technology Compatibility Kit (TCK)

For further information about the JESP program, go to Jakarta EE Specification
Process community page https://jakarta.ee/specifications.

[[GBFQR]][[about-the-tck]]

1.2 About the TCK
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The {TechnologyShortName} TCK {TechnologyVersion} is designed as a
portable, configurable, automated test suite for verifying the
compatibility of a vendor's implementation of the
{TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion} Specification.

[[GBFQV]][[tck-specifications-and-requirements]]

1.2.1 TCK Specifications and Requirements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section lists the applicable requirements and specifications.

* Specification Requirements: Software requirements for a
{TechnologyShortName} implementation are described in detail in the
{TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion} Specification.  Links to the
{TechnologyShortName} specification and other product information can
be found at {SpecificationURL}.
* {TechnologyShortName} Version: The {TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion} TCK
is based on the {TechnologyShortName}
Specification, Version {TechnologyVersion}.
* Compatible Implementation: One {TechnologyShortName}
{TechnologyVersion} Compatible Implementation, {TechnologyRI} is
available from the Eclipse EE4J project
(https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/ee4j). See the CI documentation page at
{TechnologyRIURL} for more information.

See the {TechnologyShortName} TCK Release Notes for more specific
information about Java SE version requirements, supported platforms,
restrictions, and so on.

[[GBFSQ]][[tck-components]]

1.2.2 TCK Components
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The {TechnologyShortName} TCK {TechnologyVersion} includes the
following components:

* JavaTest harness version {JavaTestVersion} and related documentation. See the
link:https://wiki.openjdk.java.net/display/CodeTools/JT+Harness[JT Harness web site]
for additional information.
* {TechnologyShortName} TCK signature tests; check that all public APIs
are supported and/or defined as specified in the {TechnologyShortName}
Version {TechnologyVersion} implementation under test.
* If applicable, an exclude list, which provides a list of tests that your
implementation is not required to pass.
ifndef::no-api-tests[]
* API tests for all of the {TechnologyShortName} API in all related packages:
include::packages.inc[]
endif::no-api-tests[]
ifdef::end-to-end-tests[]
* End-to-end tests that demonstrate compliance with the {TechnologyFullName}
Specification.
endif::end-to-end-tests[]

The {TechnologyShortName} TCK tests run on the following platforms:

include::platforms.inc[]

[[GBFSA]][[javatest-harness]]

1.2.3 JavaTest Harness
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The JavaTest harness version {JavaTestVersion} is a set of tools
designed to run and manage test suites on different Java platforms.
To JavaTest, Jakarta EE can be considered another platform.
The JavaTest harness can be described as both a Java application and a set
of compatibility testing tools. It can run tests on different kinds of
Java platforms and it allows the results to be browsed online within
the JavaTest GUI, or offline in the HTML reports that the JavaTest
harness generates.

The JavaTest harness includes the applications and tools that are used
for test execution and test suite management. It supports the following
features:

* Sequencing of tests, allowing them to be loaded and executed automatically
* Graphic user interface (GUI) for ease of use
* Automated reporting capability to minimize manual errors
* Failure analysis
* Test result auditing and auditable test specification framework
* Distributed testing environment support

To run tests using the JavaTest harness, you specify which tests in the
test suite to run, how to run them, and where to put the results as
described in link:config.html#GBFVV[Chapter 4, "Setup and
Configuration."]

[[GBFRA]][[tck-compatibility-test-suite]]

1.2.4 TCK Compatibility Test Suite
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The test suite is the collection of tests used by the JavaTest harness
to test a particular technology implementation. In this case, it is the
collection of tests used by the {TechnologyShortName} TCK
{TechnologyVersion} to test a {TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion}
implementation. The tests are designed to verify that a vendor's
runtime implementation of the technology complies with the appropriate
specification. The individual tests correspond to assertions of the
specification.

The tests that make up the TCK compatibility test suite are precompiled
and indexed within the TCK test directory structure. When a test run is
started, the JavaTest harness scans through the set of tests that are
located under the directories that have been selected. While scanning,
the JavaTest harness selects the appropriate tests according to any
matches with the filters you are using and queues them up for execution.

[[GBFSH]][[exclude-lists]]

1.2.5 Exclude Lists
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Each version of a TCK includes an Exclude List contained in a `.jtx`
file. 
This is a list of test file URLs that identify tests which do not
have to be run for the specific version of the TCK being used. 
Whenever tests are run, the JavaTest harness automatically excludes
any test on the Exclude List from being executed.

A vendor's compatible implementation is not required to pass or run any test on the Exclude List.
The Exclude List file, +{jtxFileName}+, is included in the
{TechnologyShortName} TCK.


[NOTE]
=======================================================================

From time to time, updates to the Exclude List are made available.
The exclude list is included in the Jakarta TCK ZIP archive.
Each time an update is approved and released, the version number 
will be incremented.
You should always make sure you are using an up-to-date copy of the
Exclude List before running the {TechnologyShortName} TCK to verify your
implementation.

=======================================================================


A test might be in the Exclude List for reasons such as:

* An error in an underlying implementation API has been discovered which
does not allow the test to execute properly.
* An error in the specification that was used as the basis of the test
has been discovered.
* An error in the test itself has been discovered.
* The test fails due to a bug in the tools (such as the JavaTest
harness, for example).

In addition, all tests are run against the compatible implementations.
Any tests that fail when run on a compatible Jakarta platform are put on the
Exclude List. Any test that is not specification-based, or for which the
specification is vague, may be excluded. Any test that is found to be
implementation dependent (based on a particular thread scheduling model,
based on a particular file system behavior, and so on) may be excluded.


[NOTE]
=======================================================================

Vendors are not permitted to alter or modify Exclude Lists. Changes to
an Exclude List can only be made by using the procedure described in
link:rules.html#CJAJEAEI[Section 2.3.1, "TCK Test Appeals Steps."]

=======================================================================


[[GBFRR]][[tck-configuration]]

1.2.6 TCK Configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You need to set several variables in your test environment, modify
properties in the +{jteFileName}+ file, and then use the JavaTest
harness to configure and run the {TechnologyShortName} tests, as described in
link:config.html#GBFVV[Chapter 4, "Setup and Configuration."]

include::intro.inc[]

[[GBFQW]][[getting-started-with-the-tck]]

[NOTE]
====
The Jakarta EE Specification Process support multiple compatible implementations. 
These instructions explain how to get started with the {TechnologyRI} CI.
If you are using another compatible implementation, refer to material provided
by that implementation for specific instructions and procedures.

====

1.3 Getting Started With the TCK
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This section provides an general overview of what needs to be done to
install, set up, test, and use the {TechnologyShortName} TCK. These
steps are explained in more detail in subsequent chapters of this
guide.

1.  Make sure that the following software has been correctly installed
on the system hosting the JavaTest harness:
include::req-software.inc[]
* Java SE {SEversion}
* A CI for {TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion}. One example is {TechnologyRI}.
* {TechnologyShortName} TCK version {TechnologyVersion}
* The {TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion} Vendor Implementation (VI) +
See the documentation for each of these software applications for
installation instructions. See link:install.html#GBFTP[Chapter 3,
"Installation,"] for instructions on installing the {TechnologyShortName} TCK.
2.  Set up the {TechnologyShortName} TCK software. +
See link:config.html#GBFVV[Chapter 4, "Setup and Configuration,"] for
details about the following steps.
  a.  Set up your shell environment.
  b.  Modify the required properties in the +{jteFileName}+ file.
  c.  Configure the JavaTest harness.
3.  Test the {TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion} implementation. +
Test the {TechnologyShortName} implementation installation by running
the test suite.  See link:using.html#GBFWO[Chapter 5, "Executing Tests."]

Commit message:

Moving to maven and JUnit5
Signed-off-by: Jorge Bescos Gascon <jorge.bescos.gascon@oracle.com>

docs/ug/src/main/jbake/content/intro.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

    This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
    terms of the Eclipse Public License v. 2.0, which is available at
    http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

    This Source Code may also be made available under the following Secondary
    Licenses when the conditions for such availability set forth in the
    Eclipse Public License v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU General Public License,
    version 2 with the GNU Classpath Exception, which is available at
    https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html.

    SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0 OR GPL-2.0 WITH Classpath-exception-2.0

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

type=page
status=published
title=Introduction
next=rules.html
prev=preface.html
~~~~~~
include::attributes.conf[]
Introduction
============

[[GBFOW]]


[[introduction]]
1 Introduction
--------------

This chapter provides an overview of the principles that apply
generally to all Technology Compatibility Kits (TCKs) and describes the
{TechnologyFullName} TCK ({TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion} TCK). 
It also includes a high level listing
of what is needed to get up and running with the {TechnologyShortName}
TCK.

This chapter includes the following topics:

* link:#GBFTK[Compatibility Testing]
* link:#GBFQR[About the TCK]
* link:#GBFQW[Getting Started With the TCK]

[[GBFTK]][[compatibility-testing]]

1.1 Compatibility Testing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Compatibility testing differs from traditional product testing in a
number of ways. The focus of compatibility testing is to test those
features and areas of an implementation that are likely to differ across
other implementations, such as those features that:

* Rely on hardware or operating system-specific behavior
* Are difficult to port
* Mask or abstract hardware or operating system behavior

Compatibility test development for a given feature relies on a complete
specification and compatible implementation (CI) for that feature.
Compatibility testing is not primarily concerned with robustness,
performance, nor ease of use.

[[GBFQN]][[why-compatibility-testing-is-important]]

1.1.1 Why Compatibility Testing is Important
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Jakarta platform compatibility is important to different groups involved
with Jakarta technologies for different reasons:

* Compatibility testing ensures that the Jakarta platform does not become
fragmented as it is ported to different operating systems and hardware
environments.
* Compatibility testing benefits developers working in the Jakarta
programming language, allowing them to write applications once and then
to deploy them across heterogeneous computing environments without
porting.
* Compatibility testing allows application users to obtain applications
from disparate sources and deploy them with confidence.
* Conformance testing benefits Jakarta platform implementors by ensuring a
level playing field for all Jakarta platform ports.

[[GBFPR]][[tck-compatibility-rules]]

1.1.2 TCK Compatibility Rules
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Compatibility criteria for all technology implementations are embodied
in the TCK Compatibility Rules that apply to a specified technology.
Each TCK tests for adherence to these Rules as described in
link:rules.html#GBFSN[Chapter 2, "Procedure for Certification."]

[[GBFPW]][[tck-overview]]

1.1.3 TCK Overview
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A TCK is a set of tools and tests used to verify that a vendor's compatible
implementation of a Jakarta EE technology conforms to the applicable
specification. All tests in the TCK are based on the written
specifications for the Jakarta EE platform. A TCK tests compatibility of a
vendor's compatible implementation of the technology to the applicable
specification of the technology. Compatibility testing is a means of
ensuring correctness, completeness, and consistency across all
implementations developed by technology licensees.

The set of tests included with each TCK is called the test suite. Most
tests in a TCK's test suite are self-checking, but some tests may
require tester interaction. Most tests return either a Pass or Fail
status. For a given platform to be certified, all of the required tests
must pass. The definition of required tests may change from platform to
platform.

The definition of required tests will change over time. Before your
final certification test pass, be sure to download the latest version
of this TCK.

[[GBFPB]][[java-community-process-jcp-program-and-compatibility-testing]]

1.1.4 Jakarta EE Specification Process (JESP) Program and Compatibility Testing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Jakarta EE Specification Process (JESP) program is the formalization of the
open process that has been used since 2019 to develop and revise Jakarta EE
technology specifications in cooperation with the international Jakarta EE
community. The JESP program specifies that the following three major
components must be included as deliverables in a final Jakarta EE technology
release under the direction of the responsible Expert Group:

* Technology Specification
* Compatible Implementation (CI)
* Technology Compatibility Kit (TCK)

For further information about the JESP program, go to Jakarta EE Specification
Process community page https://jakarta.ee/specifications.

[[GBFQR]][[about-the-tck]]

1.2 About the TCK
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The {TechnologyShortName} TCK {TechnologyVersion} is designed as a
portable, configurable, automated test suite for verifying the
compatibility of a vendor's implementation of the
{TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion} Specification.

[[GBFQV]][[tck-specifications-and-requirements]]

1.2.1 TCK Specifications and Requirements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section lists the applicable requirements and specifications.

* Specification Requirements: Software requirements for a
{TechnologyShortName} implementation are described in detail in the
{TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion} Specification.  Links to the
{TechnologyShortName} specification and other product information can
be found at {SpecificationURL}.
* {TechnologyShortName} Version: The {TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion} TCK
is based on the {TechnologyShortName}
Specification, Version {TechnologyVersion}.
* Compatible Implementation: One {TechnologyShortName}
{TechnologyVersion} Compatible Implementation, {TechnologyRI} is
available from the Eclipse EE4J project
(https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/ee4j). See the CI documentation page at
{TechnologyRIURL} for more information.

See the {TechnologyShortName} TCK Release Notes for more specific
information about Java SE version requirements, supported platforms,
restrictions, and so on.

[[GBFSQ]][[tck-components]]

1.2.2 TCK Components
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The {TechnologyShortName} TCK {TechnologyVersion} includes the
following components:

* JavaTest harness version {JavaTestVersion} and related documentation. See the
link:https://wiki.openjdk.java.net/display/CodeTools/JT+Harness[JT Harness web site]
for additional information.
* {TechnologyShortName} TCK signature tests; check that all public APIs
are supported and/or defined as specified in the {TechnologyShortName}
Version {TechnologyVersion} implementation under test.
* If applicable, an exclude list, which provides a list of tests that your
implementation is not required to pass.
ifndef::no-api-tests[]
* API tests for all of the {TechnologyShortName} API in all related packages:
include::packages.inc[]
endif::no-api-tests[]
ifdef::end-to-end-tests[]
* End-to-end tests that demonstrate compliance with the {TechnologyFullName}
Specification.
endif::end-to-end-tests[]

The {TechnologyShortName} TCK tests run on the following platforms:

include::platforms.inc[]

[[GBFSA]][[javatest-harness]]

1.2.3 JavaTest Harness
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The JavaTest harness version {JavaTestVersion} is a set of tools
designed to run and manage test suites on different Java platforms.
To JavaTest, Jakarta EE can be considered another platform.
The JavaTest harness can be described as both a Java application and a set
of compatibility testing tools. It can run tests on different kinds of
Java platforms and it allows the results to be browsed online within
the JavaTest GUI, or offline in the HTML reports that the JavaTest
harness generates.

The JavaTest harness includes the applications and tools that are used
for test execution and test suite management. It supports the following
features:

* Sequencing of tests, allowing them to be loaded and executed automatically
* Graphic user interface (GUI) for ease of use
* Automated reporting capability to minimize manual errors
* Failure analysis
* Test result auditing and auditable test specification framework
* Distributed testing environment support

To run tests using the JavaTest harness, you specify which tests in the
test suite to run, how to run them, and where to put the results as
described in link:config.html#GBFVV[Chapter 4, "Setup and
Configuration."]

[[GBFRA]][[tck-compatibility-test-suite]]

1.2.4 TCK Compatibility Test Suite
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The test suite is the collection of tests used by the JavaTest harness
to test a particular technology implementation. In this case, it is the
collection of tests used by the {TechnologyShortName} TCK
{TechnologyVersion} to test a {TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion}
implementation. The tests are designed to verify that a vendor's
runtime implementation of the technology complies with the appropriate
specification. The individual tests correspond to assertions of the
specification.

The tests that make up the TCK compatibility test suite are precompiled
and indexed within the TCK test directory structure. When a test run is
started, the JavaTest harness scans through the set of tests that are
located under the directories that have been selected. While scanning,
the JavaTest harness selects the appropriate tests according to any
matches with the filters you are using and queues them up for execution.

[[GBFSH]][[exclude-lists]]

1.2.5 Exclude Lists
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Each version of a TCK includes an Exclude List contained in a `.jtx`
file. 
This is a list of test file URLs that identify tests which do not
have to be run for the specific version of the TCK being used. 
Whenever tests are run, the JavaTest harness automatically excludes
any test on the Exclude List from being executed.

A vendor's compatible implementation is not required to pass or run any test on the Exclude List.
The Exclude List file, +{jtxFileName}+, is included in the
{TechnologyShortName} TCK.


[NOTE]
=======================================================================

From time to time, updates to the Exclude List are made available.
The exclude list is included in the Jakarta TCK ZIP archive.
Each time an update is approved and released, the version number 
will be incremented.
You should always make sure you are using an up-to-date copy of the
Exclude List before running the {TechnologyShortName} TCK to verify your
implementation.

=======================================================================


A test might be in the Exclude List for reasons such as:

* An error in an underlying implementation API has been discovered which
does not allow the test to execute properly.
* An error in the specification that was used as the basis of the test
has been discovered.
* An error in the test itself has been discovered.
* The test fails due to a bug in the tools (such as the JavaTest
harness, for example).

In addition, all tests are run against the compatible implementations.
Any tests that fail when run on a compatible Jakarta platform are put on the
Exclude List. Any test that is not specification-based, or for which the
specification is vague, may be excluded. Any test that is found to be
implementation dependent (based on a particular thread scheduling model,
based on a particular file system behavior, and so on) may be excluded.


[NOTE]
=======================================================================

Vendors are not permitted to alter or modify Exclude Lists. Changes to
an Exclude List can only be made by using the procedure described in
link:rules.html#CJAJEAEI[Section 2.3.1, "TCK Test Appeals Steps."]

=======================================================================


[[GBFRR]][[tck-configuration]]

1.2.6 TCK Configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You need to set several variables in your test environment, modify
properties in the +{jteFileName}+ file, and then use the JavaTest
harness to configure and run the {TechnologyShortName} tests, as described in
link:config.html#GBFVV[Chapter 4, "Setup and Configuration."]

include::intro.inc[]

[[GBFQW]][[getting-started-with-the-tck]]

[NOTE]
====
The Jakarta EE Specification Process support multiple compatible implementations. 
These instructions explain how to get started with the {TechnologyRI} CI.
If you are using another compatible implementation, refer to material provided
by that implementation for specific instructions and procedures.

====

1.3 Getting Started With the TCK
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This section provides an general overview of what needs to be done to
install, set up, test, and use the {TechnologyShortName} TCK. These
steps are explained in more detail in subsequent chapters of this
guide.

1.  Make sure that the following software has been correctly installed
on the system hosting the JavaTest harness:
include::req-software.inc[]
* Java SE {SEversion}
* A CI for {TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion}. One example is {TechnologyRI}.
* {TechnologyShortName} TCK version {TechnologyVersion}
* The {TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion} Vendor Implementation (VI) +
See the documentation for each of these software applications for
installation instructions. See link:install.html#GBFTP[Chapter 3,
"Installation,"] for instructions on installing the {TechnologyShortName} TCK.
2.  Set up the {TechnologyShortName} TCK software. +
See link:config.html#GBFVV[Chapter 4, "Setup and Configuration,"] for
details about the following steps.
  a.  Set up your shell environment.
  b.  Modify the required properties in the +{jteFileName}+ file.
  c.  Configure the JavaTest harness.
3.  Test the {TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion} implementation. +
Test the {TechnologyShortName} implementation installation by running
the test suite.  See link:using.html#GBFWO[Chapter 5, "Executing Tests."]
