docs/ug/src/main/jbake/content/preface.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Preface
next=intro.html
prev=title.html
~~~~~~
include::attributes.conf[]
Preface
=======

[[TCJRS00001]][[GBFTI]]


[[preface]]
Preface
-------

This guide describes how to install, configure, and run the Technology
Compatibility Kit (TCK) that is used to test the {TechnologyFullName}
({TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion}) technology.

The {TechnologyShortName} TCK is a portable, configurable automated
test suite for verifying the compatibility of a vendor's
implementation of the {TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion}
Specification (hereafter referred to as the vendor implementation or VI).
The {TechnologyShortName} TCK uses the JavaTest harness version
{JavaTestVersion} to run the test suite


[NOTE]
=======================================================================

Note All references to specific Web URLs are given for the sake of your
convenience in locating the resources quickly. These references are
always subject to changes that are in many cases beyond the control of
the authors of this guide.

=======================================================================

Jakarta EE is a community sponsored and community run program. 
Organizations contribute, along side individual contributors who use, evolve 
and assist others.
Commercial support is not available through the Eclipse Foundation resources.
Please refer to the Eclipse EE4J project site
(https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/ee4j).
There, you will find additional details as well as a list of all the associated sub-projects 
(Implementations and APIs), that make up Jakarta EE and define these specifications. 
If you have questions about this Specification you may
send inquiries to {SpecificationInquiryList}. 
If you have questions about this TCK, you may send inquiries to 
{TCKInquiryList}.

[[TCJRS00034]][[GBFUS]]


[[who-should-use-this-book]]
Who Should Use This Book
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This guide is for vendors that implement the {TechnologyShortName}
{TechnologyVersion} technology to assist them in running the test suite
that verifies compatibility of their implementation of the
{TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion} Specification.


[[TCJRS00035]][[GBFPO]]


[[before-you-read-this-book]]
Before You Read This Book
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You should be familiar with the {TechnologyShortName}
{TechnologyVersion}, version {TechnologyVersion} Specification, 
which can be found at {SpecificationURL}.

Before running the tests in the {TechnologyShortName} TCK, you should
familiarize yourself with the JavaTest documentation which can be
accessed at the
link:https://wiki.openjdk.java.net/display/CodeTools/JT+Harness[JT Harness web site].

[[TCJRS00036]][[GBFWF]]


[[typographic-conventions]]
Typographic Conventions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following table describes the typographic conventions that are used
in this book.

[width="100%",cols="15%,40%,45%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Convention |Meaning |Example
|*Boldface* |Boldface type indicates graphical user interface elements
associated with an action, terms defined in text, or what you type,
contrasted with onscreen computer output. a|
From the *File* menu, select *Open Project*.

A *cache* is a copy that is stored locally.

`machine_name% *su*` +
`Password:`

|`Monospace` |Monospace type indicates the names of files and
directories, commands within a paragraph, URLs, code in examples, text
that appears on the screen, or text that you enter. a|
Edit your `.login` file.

Use `ls` `-a` to list all files.

`machine_name% you have mail.`

|_Italic_ |Italic type indicates book titles, emphasis, or placeholder
variables for which you supply particular values. a|
Read Chapter 6 in the _User's Guide_.

Do _not_ save the file.

The command to remove a file is `rm` _filename_.

|=======================================================================


[[TCJRS00037]][[FWBSD]]


[[shell-prompts-in-command-examples]]
Shell Prompts in Command Examples
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following table shows the default UNIX system prompt and superuser
prompt for the C shell, Bourne shell, and Korn shell.

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|=====================================================
|Shell |Prompt
|C shell |`machine_name%`
|C shell for superuser |`machine_name#`
|Bourne shell and Korn shell |`$` +
|Bourne shell and Korn shell for superuser |`#` +
|Bash shell |`shell_name-shell_version$`
|Bash shell for superuser |`shell_name-shell_version#`
|=====================================================

Commit message:

Moving to maven and JUnit5
Signed-off-by: Jorge Bescos Gascon <jorge.bescos.gascon@oracle.com>

docs/ug/src/main/jbake/content/preface.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

    This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
    terms of the Eclipse Public License v. 2.0, which is available at
    http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

    This Source Code may also be made available under the following Secondary
    Licenses when the conditions for such availability set forth in the
    Eclipse Public License v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU General Public License,
    version 2 with the GNU Classpath Exception, which is available at
    https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html.

    SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0 OR GPL-2.0 WITH Classpath-exception-2.0

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

type=page
status=published
title=Preface
next=intro.html
prev=title.html
~~~~~~
include::attributes.conf[]
Preface
=======

[[TCJRS00001]][[GBFTI]]


[[preface]]
Preface
-------

This guide describes how to install, configure, and run the Technology
Compatibility Kit (TCK) that is used to test the {TechnologyFullName}
({TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion}) technology.

The {TechnologyShortName} TCK is a portable, configurable automated
test suite for verifying the compatibility of a vendor's
implementation of the {TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion}
Specification (hereafter referred to as the vendor implementation or VI).
The {TechnologyShortName} TCK uses the JavaTest harness version
{JavaTestVersion} to run the test suite


[NOTE]
=======================================================================

Note All references to specific Web URLs are given for the sake of your
convenience in locating the resources quickly. These references are
always subject to changes that are in many cases beyond the control of
the authors of this guide.

=======================================================================

Jakarta EE is a community sponsored and community run program. 
Organizations contribute, along side individual contributors who use, evolve 
and assist others.
Commercial support is not available through the Eclipse Foundation resources.
Please refer to the Eclipse EE4J project site
(https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/ee4j).
There, you will find additional details as well as a list of all the associated sub-projects 
(Implementations and APIs), that make up Jakarta EE and define these specifications. 
If you have questions about this Specification you may
send inquiries to {SpecificationInquiryList}. 
If you have questions about this TCK, you may send inquiries to 
{TCKInquiryList}.

[[TCJRS00034]][[GBFUS]]


[[who-should-use-this-book]]
Who Should Use This Book
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This guide is for vendors that implement the {TechnologyShortName}
{TechnologyVersion} technology to assist them in running the test suite
that verifies compatibility of their implementation of the
{TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion} Specification.


[[TCJRS00035]][[GBFPO]]


[[before-you-read-this-book]]
Before You Read This Book
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You should be familiar with the {TechnologyShortName}
{TechnologyVersion}, version {TechnologyVersion} Specification, 
which can be found at {SpecificationURL}.

Before running the tests in the {TechnologyShortName} TCK, you should
familiarize yourself with the JavaTest documentation which can be
accessed at the
link:https://wiki.openjdk.java.net/display/CodeTools/JT+Harness[JT Harness web site].

[[TCJRS00036]][[GBFWF]]


[[typographic-conventions]]
Typographic Conventions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following table describes the typographic conventions that are used
in this book.

[width="100%",cols="15%,40%,45%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Convention |Meaning |Example
|*Boldface* |Boldface type indicates graphical user interface elements
associated with an action, terms defined in text, or what you type,
contrasted with onscreen computer output. a|
From the *File* menu, select *Open Project*.

A *cache* is a copy that is stored locally.

`machine_name% *su*` +
`Password:`

|`Monospace` |Monospace type indicates the names of files and
directories, commands within a paragraph, URLs, code in examples, text
that appears on the screen, or text that you enter. a|
Edit your `.login` file.

Use `ls` `-a` to list all files.

`machine_name% you have mail.`

|_Italic_ |Italic type indicates book titles, emphasis, or placeholder
variables for which you supply particular values. a|
Read Chapter 6 in the _User's Guide_.

Do _not_ save the file.

The command to remove a file is `rm` _filename_.

|=======================================================================


[[TCJRS00037]][[FWBSD]]


[[shell-prompts-in-command-examples]]
Shell Prompts in Command Examples
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following table shows the default UNIX system prompt and superuser
prompt for the C shell, Bourne shell, and Korn shell.

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",options="header",]
|=====================================================
|Shell |Prompt
|C shell |`machine_name%`
|C shell for superuser |`machine_name#`
|Bourne shell and Korn shell |`$` +
|Bourne shell and Korn shell for superuser |`#` +
|Bash shell |`shell_name-shell_version$`
|Bash shell for superuser |`shell_name-shell_version#`
|=====================================================
