docs/ug/src/main/jbake/content/rules.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Procedure for Certification
next=install.html
prev=intro.html
~~~~~~
include::attributes.conf[]
Procedure for Certification
===========================

[[GBFSN]]


[[procedure-for-certification]]
2 Procedure for Certification
-----------------------------

This chapter describes the compatibility testing procedure and
compatibility requirements for {TechnologyFullName}.
This chapter contains the following sections:

* link:#CJAFFDGI[Certification Overview]
* link:#CJAFGIGG[Compatibility Requirements]
* link:#CJAIIBDJ[Test Appeals Process]
* link:#CJAJECIE[Specifications for {TechnologyFullName}]
* link:#CJABAHGI[Libraries for {TechnologyFullName}]

[[CJAFFDGI]][[certification-overview]]

2.1 Certification Overview
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The certification process for {technologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion}
consists of the following activities:

* Install the appropriate version of the Technology Compatibility Kit
(TCK) and execute it in accordance with the instructions in this User's
Guide.
* Ensure that you meet the requirements outlined in
link:#CJAFGIGG[Compatibility Requirements] below.
* Certify to the Eclipse Foundation that you have finished
testing and that you meet all of the compatibility requirements,
as required by the Eclipse Foundation TCK License.

[[CJAFGIGG]][[compatibility-requirements]]

2.2 Compatibility Requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The compatibility requirements for {TechnologyShortName}
{TechnologyVersion} consist of meeting the requirements set forth by
the rules and associated definitions contained in this section.

[[sthref4]][[definitions]]

2.2.1 Definitions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

These definitions are for use only with these compatibility requirements
and are not intended for any other purpose.

[[sthref5]][[sthref6]]

Table 2-1 Definitions 

[width="100%",cols="25%,75%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Term |Definition
|API Definition Product |A Product for which the only Java class files
contained in the product are those corresponding to the application
programming interfaces defined by the Specifications, and which is
intended only as a means for formally specifying the application
programming interfaces defined by the Specifications.

|Computational Resource a|
A piece of hardware or software that may vary in quantity, existence, or
version, which may be required to exist in a minimum quantity and/or at
a specific or minimum revision level so as to satisfy the requirements
of the Test Suite.

Examples of computational resources that may vary in quantity are RAM
and file descriptors.

Examples of computational resources that may vary in existence (that is,
may or may not exist) are graphics cards and device drivers.

Examples of computational resources that may vary in version are
operating systems and device drivers.

|Configuration Descriptor |Any file whose format is well defined by a
specification and which contains configuration information for a set of
Java classes, archive, or other feature defined in the specification.

|Conformance Tests |All tests in the Test Suite for an indicated
Technology Under Test, as released and distributed by the 
Eclipse Foundation, excluding those tests on the 
published Exclude List for the Technology Under Test.

|Container |An implementation of the associated Libraries, as specified
in the Specifications, and a version of a Java Platform, Standard
Edition Runtime Product, as specified in the Specifications, or a later
version of a Java Platform, Standard Edition Runtime Product that also
meets these compatibility requirements.

|Documented |Made technically accessible and made known to users,
typically by means such as marketing materials, product documentation,
usage messages, or developer support programs.

|Exclude List |The most current list of tests, released and distributed by the
Eclipse Foundation, that are not required to be passed to certify
conformance. The Jakarta EE Specification Committee may add to the Exclude List for that
Test Suite as needed at any time, in which case the updated TCK version
supplants any previous Exclude Lists for that Test Suite.

|Libraries a|
The class libraries, as specified through the Jakarta EE Specification Process
(JESP), for the Technology Under Test.

The Libraries for {TechnologyFullName} are listed at the end of this chapter.

|Location Resource a|
A location of classes or native libraries that are components of the
test tools or tests, such that these classes or libraries may be
required to exist in a certain location in order to satisfy the
requirements of the test suite.

For example, classes may be required to exist in directories named in a
CLASSPATH variable, or native libraries may be required to exist in
directories named in a PATH variable.

|Maintenance Lead |The corresponding Jakarta EE Specification Project
is responsible for maintaining the Specification, and the TCK for the
Technology.  The Specification Project Team will propose revisions and
updates to the Jakarta EE Specification Committee which will approve
and release new versions of the specification and TCK.

|Operating Mode a|
Any Documented option of a Product that can be changed by a user in
order to modify the behavior of the Product.

For example, an Operating Mode can be binary (enable/disable
optimization), an enumeration (select from a list of protocols), or a
range (set the maximum number of active threads).

Note that an Operating Mode may be selected by a command line switch, an
environment variable, a GUI user interface element, a configuration or
control file, etc.

|Product |A vendor's product in which the Technology Under Test is
implemented or incorporated, and that is subject to compatibility
testing.

|Product Configuration a|
A specific setting or instantiation of an Operating Mode.

For example, a Product supporting an Operating Mode that permits user
selection of an external encryption package may have a Product
Configuration that links the Product to that encryption package.

|Rebuildable Tests |Tests that must be built using an
implementation-specific mechanism. This mechanism must produce
specification-defined artifacts. Rebuilding and running these tests
against a known compatible implementation verifies that the mechanism generates
compatible artifacts.

|Resource |A Computational Resource, a Location Resource, or a Security
Resource.

|Rules |These definitions and rules in this Compatibility Requirements
section of this User's Guide.

|Runtime |The Containers specified in the Specifications.

|Security Resource a|
A security privilege or policy necessary for the proper execution of the
Test Suite.

For example, the user executing the Test Suite will need the privilege
to access the files and network resources necessary for use of the
Product.

|Specifications a|
The documents produced through the Jakarta EE Specification Process (JESP)
that define a particular Version of a Technology.

The Specifications for the Technology Under Test are referenced later in
this chapter.

|Technology |Specifications and one or more compatible implementations produced
through the Jakarta EE Specification Process (JESP).

|Technology Under Test |Specifications and a compatible implementation
for {TechnologyFullName} Version {TechnologyVersion}.

|Test Suite |The requirements, tests, and testing tools distributed by
the Maintenance Lead as applicable to a given Version of the Technology.

|Version |A release of the Technology, as produced through the
Jakarta EE Specification Process (JESP).

include::defns.inc[]
|=======================================================================


[[sthref7]][[rules-for-products]]

2.2.2 Rules for {TechnologyFullName} Products
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following rules apply for each version of an operating system,
software component, and hardware platform Documented as supporting the
Product:

*{techID}1* The Product must be able to satisfy all applicable compatibility
requirements, including passing all Conformance Tests, in every Product
Configuration and in every combination of Product Configurations, except
only as specifically exempted by these Rules.

For example, if a Product provides distinct Operating Modes to optimize
performance, then that Product must satisfy all applicable compatibility
requirements for a Product in each Product Configuration, and
combination of Product Configurations, of those Operating Modes.

*{techID}1.1* If an Operating Mode controls a Resource necessary for the
basic execution of the Test Suite, testing may always use a Product
Configuration of that Operating Mode providing that Resource, even if
other Product Configurations do not provide that Resource.
Notwithstanding such exceptions, each Product must have at least one set
of Product Configurations of such Operating Modes that is able to pass
all the Conformance Tests.

For example, a Product with an Operating Mode that controls a security
policy (i.e., Security Resource) which has one or more Product
Configurations that cause Conformance Tests to fail may be tested using
a Product Configuration that allows all Conformance Tests to pass.

*{techID}1.2* A Product Configuration of an Operating Mode that causes the
Product to report only version, usage, or diagnostic information is
exempted from these compatibility rules.

*{techID}1.3* An API Definition Product is exempt from all functional
testing requirements defined here, except the signature tests.

*{techID}2* Some Conformance Tests may have properties that may be changed.
Properties that can be changed are identified in the configuration
interview. Properties that can be changed are identified in the JavaTest
Environment (.jte) files in the Test Suite
installation. Apart from changing such properties and other allowed
modifications described in this User's Guide (if any), no source or
binary code for a Conformance Test may be altered in any way without
prior written permission. Any such allowed alterations to the
Conformance Tests will be provided via the Jakarta EE Specification Project 
website and apply to all vendor compatible implementations.

*{techID}3* The testing tools supplied as part of the Test Suite or as
updated by the Maintenance Lead must be used to certify compliance.

*{techID}4* The Exclude List associated with the Test Suite cannot be
modified.

*{techID}5* The Maintenance Lead can define exceptions to these Rules. Such
exceptions would be made available as above, and will apply to all vendor implementations.

*{techID}6* All hardware and software component additions, deletions, and
modifications to a Documented supporting hardware/software platform,
that are not part of the Product but required for the Product to satisfy
the compatibility requirements, must be Documented and available to
users of the Product.

For example, if a patch to a particular version of a supporting
operating system is required for the Product to pass the Conformance
Tests, that patch must be Documented and available to users of the
Product.

*{techID}7* The Product must contain the full set of public and protected
classes and interfaces for all the Libraries. Those classes and
interfaces must contain exactly the set of public and protected methods,
constructors, and fields defined by the Specifications for those
Libraries. No subsetting, supersetting, or modifications of the public
and protected API of the Libraries are allowed except only as
specifically exempted by these Rules.

*{techID}7.1* If a Product includes Technologies in addition to the
Technology Under Test, then it must contain the full set of combined
public and protected classes and interfaces. The API of the Product
must contain the union of the included Technologies. No further
modifications to the APIs of the included Technologies are allowed.

ifdef::subset-allowed[]
*{techID}7.2* The Product may contain a subset of the classes and
interfaces for the Libraries.
endif::subset-allowed[]

*{techID}8* Except for tests specifically required by this TCK to be rebuilt
(if any), the binary Conformance Tests supplied as part of the Test
Suite or as updated by the Maintenance Lead must be used to certify
compliance.

*{techID}9* The functional programmatic behavior of any binary class or
interface must be that defined by the Specifications.

include::rules.inc[]

[[CJAIIBDJ]][[test-appeals-process]]

2.3 Test Appeals Process
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Jakarta has a well established process for managing challenges to its
TCKs. Any implementor may submit a challenge to one or more tests in the
{TechnologyShortName} TCK as it relates to their implementation.  Implementor
means the entity as a whole in charge of producing the final certified release.
*Challenges filed should represent the consensus of that entity*.

2.3.1 Valid Challenges
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Any test case (e.g., test class, @Test method), test case configuration (e.g., deployment descriptor), test beans, annotations, and other resources considered part of the TCK may be challenged.

The following scenarios are considered in scope for test challenges:

* Claims that a test assertion conflicts with the specification.
* Claims that a test asserts requirements over and above that of the specification.
* Claims that an assertion of the specification is not sufficiently implementable.
* Claims that a test is not portable or depends on a particular implementation.

2.3.2 Invalid Challenges
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The following scenarios are considered out of scope for test challenges and will be immediately closed if filed:

* Challenging an implementation’s claim of passing a test.  Certification is an honor system and these issues must be raised directly with the implementation.
* Challenging the usefulness of a specification requirement.  The challenge process cannot be used to bypass the specification process and raise in question the need or relevance of a specification requirement.
* Claims the TCK is inadequate or missing assertions required by the specification.  See the Improvement section, which is outside the scope of test challenges.
* Challenges that do not represent a consensus of the implementing community will be closed until such time that the community does agree or agreement cannot be made.  The test challenge process is not the place for implementations to initiate their own internal discussions.
* Challenges to tests that are already excluded for any reason.
* Challenges that an excluded test should not have been excluded and should be re-added should be opened as a new enhancement request

Test challenges must be made in writing via the {TechnologyShortName} specification project issue tracker
as described in link:#CJAJEAEI[Section 2.3.3, "TCK Test Appeals Steps."]

All tests found to be invalid will be placed on the Exclude List
for that version of the {TechnologyShortName} TCK.


[[CJAJEAEI]][[tck-test-appeals-steps]]

2.3.3 TCK Test Appeals Steps
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Challenges should be filed via the {TechnologyFullName} specification project’s issue tracker using the label `challenge` and include the following information:
* The relevant specification version and section number(s)
* The coordinates of the challenged test(s)
* The exact TCK and exclude list versions
* The implementation being tested, including name and company
* The full test name
* A full description of why the test is invalid and what the correct behavior is believed to be
* Any supporting material; debug logs, test output, test logs, run scripts, etc.



2. Specification project evaluates the challenge. +
Challenges can be resolved by a specification project lead, or a project challenge triage team, after a consensus of the specification project committers is reached or attempts to gain consensus fails.
Specification projects may exercise lazy consensus, voting or any practice that follows the principles of Eclipse Foundation Development Process.
The expected timeframe for a response is two weeks or less.
If consensus cannot be reached by the specification project for a prolonged period of time, the default recommendation is to exclude the tests and address the dispute in a future revision of the specification.

3.  Accepted Challenges. +
A consensus that a test produces invalid results will result in the exclusion of that test from certification requirements, and an immediate update and release of an official distribution of the TCK including the new exclude list. The associated `challenge` issue must be closed with an `accepted` label to indicate it has been resolved.

4.  Rejected Challenges and Remedy. +
When a`challenge` issue is rejected, it must be closed with a label of `invalid` to indicate it has been rejected.
There appeal process for challenges rejected on technical terms is outlined in Escalation Appeal.
If, however, an implementer feels the TCK challenge process was not followed, an appeal issue should be filed with specification project’s TCK issue tracker using the label `challenge-appeal`.
A project lead should escalate the issue with the Jakarta EE Specification Committee via email (jakarta.ee-spec@eclipse.org).
The committee will evaluate the matter purely in terms of due process.
If the appeal is accepted, the original TCK challenge issue will be reopened and a label of `appealed-challenge` added, along with a discussion of the appeal decision, and the `challenge-appeal` issue with be closed.
If the appeal is rejected, the `challenge-appeal` issue should closed with a label of `invalid`.

5. Escalation Appeal. +
If there is a concern that a TCK process issue has not been resolved satisfactorily, the
https://www.eclipse.org/projects/dev_process/#6_5_Grievance_Handling[Eclipse Development Process Grievance Handling] procedure should be followed to escalate the resolution. Note that this is not a mechanism to attempt to handle implementation specific issues.


[[CJAJECIE]][[specifications-for-technology]]

2.4 Specifications for {TechnologyFullName}
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The {TechnologyFullName} specification is available from the specification
project web-site: {SpecificationURL}.

[[CJABAHGI]][[libraries-for-technology]]

2.5 Libraries for {TechnologyFullName}
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following is a list of the packages comprising the required class
libraries for {TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion}:

include::packages.inc[]

For the latest list of packages, also see:

{SpecificationURL}

Commit message:

Moving to maven and JUnit5
Signed-off-by: Jorge Bescos Gascon <jorge.bescos.gascon@oracle.com>

docs/ug/src/main/jbake/content/rules.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

    This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
    terms of the Eclipse Public License v. 2.0, which is available at
    http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

    This Source Code may also be made available under the following Secondary
    Licenses when the conditions for such availability set forth in the
    Eclipse Public License v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU General Public License,
    version 2 with the GNU Classpath Exception, which is available at
    https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html.

    SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0 OR GPL-2.0 WITH Classpath-exception-2.0

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

type=page
status=published
title=Procedure for Certification
next=install.html
prev=intro.html
~~~~~~
include::attributes.conf[]
Procedure for Certification
===========================

[[GBFSN]]


[[procedure-for-certification]]
2 Procedure for Certification
-----------------------------

This chapter describes the compatibility testing procedure and
compatibility requirements for {TechnologyFullName}.
This chapter contains the following sections:

* link:#CJAFFDGI[Certification Overview]
* link:#CJAFGIGG[Compatibility Requirements]
* link:#CJAIIBDJ[Test Appeals Process]
* link:#CJAJECIE[Specifications for {TechnologyFullName}]
* link:#CJABAHGI[Libraries for {TechnologyFullName}]

[[CJAFFDGI]][[certification-overview]]

2.1 Certification Overview
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The certification process for {technologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion}
consists of the following activities:

* Install the appropriate version of the Technology Compatibility Kit
(TCK) and execute it in accordance with the instructions in this User's
Guide.
* Ensure that you meet the requirements outlined in
link:#CJAFGIGG[Compatibility Requirements] below.
* Certify to the Eclipse Foundation that you have finished
testing and that you meet all of the compatibility requirements,
as required by the Eclipse Foundation TCK License.

[[CJAFGIGG]][[compatibility-requirements]]

2.2 Compatibility Requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The compatibility requirements for {TechnologyShortName}
{TechnologyVersion} consist of meeting the requirements set forth by
the rules and associated definitions contained in this section.

[[sthref4]][[definitions]]

2.2.1 Definitions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

These definitions are for use only with these compatibility requirements
and are not intended for any other purpose.

[[sthref5]][[sthref6]]

Table 2-1 Definitions 

[width="100%",cols="25%,75%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Term |Definition
|API Definition Product |A Product for which the only Java class files
contained in the product are those corresponding to the application
programming interfaces defined by the Specifications, and which is
intended only as a means for formally specifying the application
programming interfaces defined by the Specifications.

|Computational Resource a|
A piece of hardware or software that may vary in quantity, existence, or
version, which may be required to exist in a minimum quantity and/or at
a specific or minimum revision level so as to satisfy the requirements
of the Test Suite.

Examples of computational resources that may vary in quantity are RAM
and file descriptors.

Examples of computational resources that may vary in existence (that is,
may or may not exist) are graphics cards and device drivers.

Examples of computational resources that may vary in version are
operating systems and device drivers.

|Configuration Descriptor |Any file whose format is well defined by a
specification and which contains configuration information for a set of
Java classes, archive, or other feature defined in the specification.

|Conformance Tests |All tests in the Test Suite for an indicated
Technology Under Test, as released and distributed by the 
Eclipse Foundation, excluding those tests on the 
published Exclude List for the Technology Under Test.

|Container |An implementation of the associated Libraries, as specified
in the Specifications, and a version of a Java Platform, Standard
Edition Runtime Product, as specified in the Specifications, or a later
version of a Java Platform, Standard Edition Runtime Product that also
meets these compatibility requirements.

|Documented |Made technically accessible and made known to users,
typically by means such as marketing materials, product documentation,
usage messages, or developer support programs.

|Exclude List |The most current list of tests, released and distributed by the
Eclipse Foundation, that are not required to be passed to certify
conformance. The Jakarta EE Specification Committee may add to the Exclude List for that
Test Suite as needed at any time, in which case the updated TCK version
supplants any previous Exclude Lists for that Test Suite.

|Libraries a|
The class libraries, as specified through the Jakarta EE Specification Process
(JESP), for the Technology Under Test.

The Libraries for {TechnologyFullName} are listed at the end of this chapter.

|Location Resource a|
A location of classes or native libraries that are components of the
test tools or tests, such that these classes or libraries may be
required to exist in a certain location in order to satisfy the
requirements of the test suite.

For example, classes may be required to exist in directories named in a
CLASSPATH variable, or native libraries may be required to exist in
directories named in a PATH variable.

|Maintenance Lead |The corresponding Jakarta EE Specification Project
is responsible for maintaining the Specification, and the TCK for the
Technology.  The Specification Project Team will propose revisions and
updates to the Jakarta EE Specification Committee which will approve
and release new versions of the specification and TCK.

|Operating Mode a|
Any Documented option of a Product that can be changed by a user in
order to modify the behavior of the Product.

For example, an Operating Mode can be binary (enable/disable
optimization), an enumeration (select from a list of protocols), or a
range (set the maximum number of active threads).

Note that an Operating Mode may be selected by a command line switch, an
environment variable, a GUI user interface element, a configuration or
control file, etc.

|Product |A vendor's product in which the Technology Under Test is
implemented or incorporated, and that is subject to compatibility
testing.

|Product Configuration a|
A specific setting or instantiation of an Operating Mode.

For example, a Product supporting an Operating Mode that permits user
selection of an external encryption package may have a Product
Configuration that links the Product to that encryption package.

|Rebuildable Tests |Tests that must be built using an
implementation-specific mechanism. This mechanism must produce
specification-defined artifacts. Rebuilding and running these tests
against a known compatible implementation verifies that the mechanism generates
compatible artifacts.

|Resource |A Computational Resource, a Location Resource, or a Security
Resource.

|Rules |These definitions and rules in this Compatibility Requirements
section of this User's Guide.

|Runtime |The Containers specified in the Specifications.

|Security Resource a|
A security privilege or policy necessary for the proper execution of the
Test Suite.

For example, the user executing the Test Suite will need the privilege
to access the files and network resources necessary for use of the
Product.

|Specifications a|
The documents produced through the Jakarta EE Specification Process (JESP)
that define a particular Version of a Technology.

The Specifications for the Technology Under Test are referenced later in
this chapter.

|Technology |Specifications and one or more compatible implementations produced
through the Jakarta EE Specification Process (JESP).

|Technology Under Test |Specifications and a compatible implementation
for {TechnologyFullName} Version {TechnologyVersion}.

|Test Suite |The requirements, tests, and testing tools distributed by
the Maintenance Lead as applicable to a given Version of the Technology.

|Version |A release of the Technology, as produced through the
Jakarta EE Specification Process (JESP).

include::defns.inc[]
|=======================================================================


[[sthref7]][[rules-for-products]]

2.2.2 Rules for {TechnologyFullName} Products
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following rules apply for each version of an operating system,
software component, and hardware platform Documented as supporting the
Product:

*{techID}1* The Product must be able to satisfy all applicable compatibility
requirements, including passing all Conformance Tests, in every Product
Configuration and in every combination of Product Configurations, except
only as specifically exempted by these Rules.

For example, if a Product provides distinct Operating Modes to optimize
performance, then that Product must satisfy all applicable compatibility
requirements for a Product in each Product Configuration, and
combination of Product Configurations, of those Operating Modes.

*{techID}1.1* If an Operating Mode controls a Resource necessary for the
basic execution of the Test Suite, testing may always use a Product
Configuration of that Operating Mode providing that Resource, even if
other Product Configurations do not provide that Resource.
Notwithstanding such exceptions, each Product must have at least one set
of Product Configurations of such Operating Modes that is able to pass
all the Conformance Tests.

For example, a Product with an Operating Mode that controls a security
policy (i.e., Security Resource) which has one or more Product
Configurations that cause Conformance Tests to fail may be tested using
a Product Configuration that allows all Conformance Tests to pass.

*{techID}1.2* A Product Configuration of an Operating Mode that causes the
Product to report only version, usage, or diagnostic information is
exempted from these compatibility rules.

*{techID}1.3* An API Definition Product is exempt from all functional
testing requirements defined here, except the signature tests.

*{techID}2* Some Conformance Tests may have properties that may be changed.
Properties that can be changed are identified in the configuration
interview. Properties that can be changed are identified in the JavaTest
Environment (.jte) files in the Test Suite
installation. Apart from changing such properties and other allowed
modifications described in this User's Guide (if any), no source or
binary code for a Conformance Test may be altered in any way without
prior written permission. Any such allowed alterations to the
Conformance Tests will be provided via the Jakarta EE Specification Project 
website and apply to all vendor compatible implementations.

*{techID}3* The testing tools supplied as part of the Test Suite or as
updated by the Maintenance Lead must be used to certify compliance.

*{techID}4* The Exclude List associated with the Test Suite cannot be
modified.

*{techID}5* The Maintenance Lead can define exceptions to these Rules. Such
exceptions would be made available as above, and will apply to all vendor implementations.

*{techID}6* All hardware and software component additions, deletions, and
modifications to a Documented supporting hardware/software platform,
that are not part of the Product but required for the Product to satisfy
the compatibility requirements, must be Documented and available to
users of the Product.

For example, if a patch to a particular version of a supporting
operating system is required for the Product to pass the Conformance
Tests, that patch must be Documented and available to users of the
Product.

*{techID}7* The Product must contain the full set of public and protected
classes and interfaces for all the Libraries. Those classes and
interfaces must contain exactly the set of public and protected methods,
constructors, and fields defined by the Specifications for those
Libraries. No subsetting, supersetting, or modifications of the public
and protected API of the Libraries are allowed except only as
specifically exempted by these Rules.

*{techID}7.1* If a Product includes Technologies in addition to the
Technology Under Test, then it must contain the full set of combined
public and protected classes and interfaces. The API of the Product
must contain the union of the included Technologies. No further
modifications to the APIs of the included Technologies are allowed.

ifdef::subset-allowed[]
*{techID}7.2* The Product may contain a subset of the classes and
interfaces for the Libraries.
endif::subset-allowed[]

*{techID}8* Except for tests specifically required by this TCK to be rebuilt
(if any), the binary Conformance Tests supplied as part of the Test
Suite or as updated by the Maintenance Lead must be used to certify
compliance.

*{techID}9* The functional programmatic behavior of any binary class or
interface must be that defined by the Specifications.

include::rules.inc[]

[[CJAIIBDJ]][[test-appeals-process]]

2.3 Test Appeals Process
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Jakarta has a well established process for managing challenges to its
TCKs. Any implementor may submit a challenge to one or more tests in the
{TechnologyShortName} TCK as it relates to their implementation.  Implementor
means the entity as a whole in charge of producing the final certified release.
*Challenges filed should represent the consensus of that entity*.

2.3.1 Valid Challenges
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Any test case (e.g., test class, @Test method), test case configuration (e.g., deployment descriptor), test beans, annotations, and other resources considered part of the TCK may be challenged.

The following scenarios are considered in scope for test challenges:

* Claims that a test assertion conflicts with the specification.
* Claims that a test asserts requirements over and above that of the specification.
* Claims that an assertion of the specification is not sufficiently implementable.
* Claims that a test is not portable or depends on a particular implementation.

2.3.2 Invalid Challenges
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The following scenarios are considered out of scope for test challenges and will be immediately closed if filed:

* Challenging an implementation’s claim of passing a test.  Certification is an honor system and these issues must be raised directly with the implementation.
* Challenging the usefulness of a specification requirement.  The challenge process cannot be used to bypass the specification process and raise in question the need or relevance of a specification requirement.
* Claims the TCK is inadequate or missing assertions required by the specification.  See the Improvement section, which is outside the scope of test challenges.
* Challenges that do not represent a consensus of the implementing community will be closed until such time that the community does agree or agreement cannot be made.  The test challenge process is not the place for implementations to initiate their own internal discussions.
* Challenges to tests that are already excluded for any reason.
* Challenges that an excluded test should not have been excluded and should be re-added should be opened as a new enhancement request

Test challenges must be made in writing via the {TechnologyShortName} specification project issue tracker
as described in link:#CJAJEAEI[Section 2.3.3, "TCK Test Appeals Steps."]

All tests found to be invalid will be placed on the Exclude List
for that version of the {TechnologyShortName} TCK.


[[CJAJEAEI]][[tck-test-appeals-steps]]

2.3.3 TCK Test Appeals Steps
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Challenges should be filed via the {TechnologyFullName} specification project’s issue tracker using the label `challenge` and include the following information:
* The relevant specification version and section number(s)
* The coordinates of the challenged test(s)
* The exact TCK and exclude list versions
* The implementation being tested, including name and company
* The full test name
* A full description of why the test is invalid and what the correct behavior is believed to be
* Any supporting material; debug logs, test output, test logs, run scripts, etc.



2. Specification project evaluates the challenge. +
Challenges can be resolved by a specification project lead, or a project challenge triage team, after a consensus of the specification project committers is reached or attempts to gain consensus fails.
Specification projects may exercise lazy consensus, voting or any practice that follows the principles of Eclipse Foundation Development Process.
The expected timeframe for a response is two weeks or less.
If consensus cannot be reached by the specification project for a prolonged period of time, the default recommendation is to exclude the tests and address the dispute in a future revision of the specification.

3.  Accepted Challenges. +
A consensus that a test produces invalid results will result in the exclusion of that test from certification requirements, and an immediate update and release of an official distribution of the TCK including the new exclude list. The associated `challenge` issue must be closed with an `accepted` label to indicate it has been resolved.

4.  Rejected Challenges and Remedy. +
When a`challenge` issue is rejected, it must be closed with a label of `invalid` to indicate it has been rejected.
There appeal process for challenges rejected on technical terms is outlined in Escalation Appeal.
If, however, an implementer feels the TCK challenge process was not followed, an appeal issue should be filed with specification project’s TCK issue tracker using the label `challenge-appeal`.
A project lead should escalate the issue with the Jakarta EE Specification Committee via email (jakarta.ee-spec@eclipse.org).
The committee will evaluate the matter purely in terms of due process.
If the appeal is accepted, the original TCK challenge issue will be reopened and a label of `appealed-challenge` added, along with a discussion of the appeal decision, and the `challenge-appeal` issue with be closed.
If the appeal is rejected, the `challenge-appeal` issue should closed with a label of `invalid`.

5. Escalation Appeal. +
If there is a concern that a TCK process issue has not been resolved satisfactorily, the
https://www.eclipse.org/projects/dev_process/#6_5_Grievance_Handling[Eclipse Development Process Grievance Handling] procedure should be followed to escalate the resolution. Note that this is not a mechanism to attempt to handle implementation specific issues.


[[CJAJECIE]][[specifications-for-technology]]

2.4 Specifications for {TechnologyFullName}
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The {TechnologyFullName} specification is available from the specification
project web-site: {SpecificationURL}.

[[CJABAHGI]][[libraries-for-technology]]

2.5 Libraries for {TechnologyFullName}
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following is a list of the packages comprising the required class
libraries for {TechnologyShortName} {TechnologyVersion}:

include::packages.inc[]

For the latest list of packages, also see:

{SpecificationURL}
