docs/ug/src/main/jbake/content/title.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=TCK User's Guide for Technology Implementors
next=preface.html
prev=toc.html
~~~~~~
include::attributes.conf[]

TCK User's Guide for {TechnologyFullName}, Release {TechnologyVersion} for Jakarta EE
=====================================================================================

[[eclipse-foundation]]
Eclipse Foundation
------------------

Technology Compatibility Kit User's Guide for {TechnologyFullName}

Release {TechnologyVersion} for Jakarta EE

September 2020

[[sthref1]]

'''''

Technology Compatibility Kit User's Guide for {TechnologyFullName},
Release {TechnologyVersion} for Jakarta EE

Copyright (c) 2017, 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under
the terms of the Eclipse Public License v. 2.0, which is available at
http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0

Oracle and Java are registered trademarks of Oracle and/or its
affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.

include::title.inc[]

Commit message:

Moving to maven and JUnit5
Signed-off-by: Jorge Bescos Gascon <jorge.bescos.gascon@oracle.com>

docs/ug/src/main/jbake/content/title.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

    This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
    terms of the Eclipse Public License v. 2.0, which is available at
    http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

    This Source Code may also be made available under the following Secondary
    Licenses when the conditions for such availability set forth in the
    Eclipse Public License v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU General Public License,
    version 2 with the GNU Classpath Exception, which is available at
    https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html.

    SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0 OR GPL-2.0 WITH Classpath-exception-2.0

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

type=page
status=published
title=TCK User's Guide for Technology Implementors
next=preface.html
prev=toc.html
~~~~~~
include::attributes.conf[]

TCK User's Guide for {TechnologyFullName}, Release {TechnologyVersion} for Jakarta EE
=====================================================================================

[[eclipse-foundation]]
Eclipse Foundation
------------------

Technology Compatibility Kit User's Guide for {TechnologyFullName}

Release {TechnologyVersion} for Jakarta EE

September 2020

[[sthref1]]

'''''

Technology Compatibility Kit User's Guide for {TechnologyFullName},
Release {TechnologyVersion} for Jakarta EE

Copyright (c) 2017, 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under
the terms of the Eclipse Public License v. 2.0, which is available at
http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0

Oracle and Java are registered trademarks of Oracle and/or its
affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.

include::title.inc[]
